Welcome to Chronicles. Whether you’ve been LARPing for years, or have never seen a
tabard in your life, Chronicles welcomes you. For the newer players, here are a few tips
to get you started

What should I bring to my first events?
Chronicles often has spare equipment to loan to newer players. That being said, beyond
LARP-specific items, there are several things that you can bring.
- Plain Clothes
- Comfortable Footwear
- Water Bottle/Canteen
- Notebook and Writing Utensil
- Hand Fan, Sunscreen, Bugspray
- Light
Plain Clothes: If you’re new, and don’t have lots of fancy LARP clothing yet, don’t
worry. A solid colored shirt and pants work just fine as starter clothes. Cargo pants (or
similar) are great for early events due to the extra pockets. For shirts, a simple t-shirt,
button up, or sweat shirt work fine. The most important part is that they don’t have large
graphics or logos on them.
Comfortable Footwear: Chronicles generally involves at least a moderate amount of
walking. Therefor, comfortable footwear and socks are highly important. It is always
recommended to make sure your footwear is comfortable rather than just stylish. Extra
socks are just as important. Especially if it’s damp or rain is predicted.
Water Bottle: Especially important when it’s hot out, but always useful. Chronicles
generally has drinks, including water, on site, but sometimes you find yourself away from
the places it’s stored. Having a portable source of liquid is incredibly useful for long
mods.
Notebook and Writing Utensil: Notes are incredibly useful, both for in and out of game
information. Many places sell notepads small enough to fit in a pocket. That plus some
pens or pencils is a very cheap way to keep track of information.
Hand Fan, Sunscreen, Bug Spray: Chronicles is primarily an outdoors event. That
means heat, sun, insects, water, and everything else. Simple things that you’d take on
any outdoor trip, like a fan, sunscreen, and bug spray, can help make an event
significantly more enjoyable.
Light: This one is more personal preference. Some people prefer to bring a light source
to events. In most cases, this is a flashlight or LED lantern. In all cases, the light needs
to be dim enough to not blind other players. Usually this is done by covering the light in
layers of cloth, commonly held on with rubber bands or hair ties, to dim it down.  Red lights
and stargazing flashlights also work, although some may still need dimming.  If you
need a brighter light, it’s generally polite to warn other players before you turn it on so
they are prepared.

What should I expect at an event?
Chronicles is a fantasy LARP. This means lots of swords, sorcery, and exotic races.
Game takes place from Friday evening through Sunday morning.
Friday: Game begins on Friday evening. Site opens around 5 pm. Players check in with
staff, find their beds, and get into costume. Friday is also when PC Talk happens, where
staff goes over important information for the event. Lay On, when the game starts, is
normally called not long after.
Saturday: Most of the gaming takes place on Saturday, and people can usually find
something to do. Breakfast, Lunch, and Dinner are served on Saturday too. Let staff
know if you have any dietary restrictions.
Sunday: Gaming typically goes into early Sunday morning. Sunday is also when people
pack up, clean up site, and depart. Generally, people try to have everything done by
noon.
Important Locations
The exact physical locations of these vary by camp site, although they are usually pointed
out during PC talk.
Cabins (In Game): Where players sleep and store in game and out of game items not
currently in use. If possible, out of game items are best stored under the beds, or in a
marked container, to avoid confusion.
Tavern (In Game): The main in game building. This is where most people gather
between activities, and where NPCs tend to gather, both friendly and hostile. It is also
where meals are stored, and where snacks and drinks can be bought.
NPC Camp/Plot Cabin (Out Of Game): This is where Staff is located when they’re not
out running things or playing NPCs. The building is generally out of game, although
may occasionally be used to run non combat mods. It also usually has a board to note
mods you want to do, so plot knows what people have planned. As this is a building used
by staff, please make sure you knock before entering.

General Advice
Don’t be afraid to ask questions. Even in the middle of combat or intense role playing,
don’t be afraid to ask what something does or means. There are also many people with a
decent grasp on the rules who can answer questions. In game, asking questions is just as
useful, although may not always get you answers.
It’s just a game. We’re all here to have fun. Try not to let any in game interactions
affect your opinions of a person. Many people act in ways that they never would in real
life. That’s the joy of the event. It’s not personal, they don’t hate you, just your
character. However, if you believe anything negative is being done out of game, or feel
yourself getting frustrated, don’t hesitate to talk to staff, or go out of game for a while to
collect yourself.
